.TH CLAUDE\-MONITOR 1 "April 2026" "claude-monitor 3.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
claude\-monitor \- real-time terminal monitor for Claude Code token usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B claude\-monitor
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B claude\-monitor
is a Rich-based terminal dashboard that reads the local Claude Code session
data (from \fI~/.claude/projects\fR or \fI~/.config/claude/projects\fR) and
displays live statistics: token consumption, cost estimates, session progress,
and plan-limit tracking.
.PP
All five installed command names —
.BR ccm ,
.BR ccmonitor ,
.BR claude\-code\-monitor ,
.BR claude\-monitor ,
and
.BR cmonitor
— invoke the same program.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-plan \ \fIPLAN\fR
Subscription plan to use for token-limit calculations.
Valid values: \fBpro\fR, \fBmax5\fR, \fBmax20\fR, \fBcustom\fR (default: \fBcustom\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-view \ \fIMODE\fR
Display mode.
Valid values: \fBrealtime\fR (default), \fBdaily\fR, \fBmonthly\fR, \fBsession\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-theme \ \fITHEME\fR
Colour theme.
Valid values: \fBlight\fR, \fBdark\fR, \fBclassic\fR, \fBauto\fR (default: \fBauto\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-timezone \ \fITZ\fR
Timezone for display, e.g. \fBUTC\fR, \fBAmerica/New_York\fR, \fBEurope/London\fR.
Use \fBauto\fR (default) to detect from the system.
.TP
.BR \-\-time\-format \ \fIFMT\fR
Clock format: \fB12h\fR, \fB24h\fR, or \fBauto\fR (default: \fBauto\fR, detected from locale).
.TP
.BR \-\-refresh\-rate \ \fISECS\fR
Data refresh interval in seconds (1–60, default: \fB10\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-refresh\-per\-second \ \fIHz\fR
Display refresh rate in Hz (0.1–20, default: \fB0.75\fR).
Higher values use more CPU.
.TP
.BR \-\-reset\-hour \ \fIHOUR\fR
Hour of day (0–23) at which the daily usage counter resets.
.TP
.BR \-\-custom\-limit\-tokens \ \fIN\fR
Explicit token limit when \fB\-\-plan custom\fR is used.
If omitted, the limit is derived automatically from P90 session statistics.
.TP
.BR \-\-log\-level \ \fILEVEL\fR
Logging verbosity: \fBDEBUG\fR, \fBINFO\fR (default), \fBWARNING\fR, \fBERROR\fR, \fBCRITICAL\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-log\-file \ \fIPATH\fR
Write log output to \fIPATH\fR instead of stderr.
.TP
.BR \-\-debug
Enable debug logging (equivalent to \fB\-\-log\-level DEBUG\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-clear
Clear saved configuration (last-used parameters) and continue with normal startup.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.claude/projects
Primary location for Claude Code session data.
.TP
.I ~/.config/claude/projects
Secondary location for Claude Code session data.
.TP
.I ~/.claude-monitor/last_used.json
Persisted last-used settings (theme, timezone, refresh rate, etc.).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit (including user-initiated Ctrl+C).
.TP
.B 1
Fatal error during startup or monitoring.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start real-time monitoring with the Pro plan:
.PP
.RS
.B claude\-monitor \-\-plan pro
.RE
.PP
Show daily usage table in dark theme, European timezone:
.PP
.RS
.B claude\-monitor \-\-view daily \-\-theme dark \-\-timezone Europe/Berlin
.RE
.PP
Use a custom token limit of 500,000 tokens:
.PP
.RS
.B claude\-monitor \-\-plan custom \-\-custom\-limit\-tokens 500000
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ccm (1),
.BR ccmonitor (1),
.BR claude\-code\-monitor (1),
.BR cmonitor (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Maciek <maciek@roboblog.eu>
.PP
Debian packaging by Vítězslav Dvořák <info@vitexsoftware.cz>.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at \fIhttps://github.com/Maciek-roboblog/Claude-Code-Usage-Monitor/issues\fR.
